README.md, before:

[![Apache Sling](https://sling.apache.org/res/logos/sling.png)](https://sling.apache.org)

&#32;[![Build Status](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/badge/icon)](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/)&#32;[![Test Status](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/tests.svg?jobUrl=https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/)](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/test/?width=800&height=600)&#32;[![Sonarcloud Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=apache_sling-org-apache-sling-starter&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=apache_sling-org-apache-sling-starter)&#32;[![JavaDoc](https://www.javadoc.io/badge/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.starter.svg)](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.starter)&#32;[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.starter/badge.svg)](https://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22org.apache.sling%22%20a%3A%22org.apache.sling.starter%22) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

# Apache Sling Starter

This module is part of the [Apache Sling](https://sling.apache.org) project.

The starter project produces feature artifacts that can be launched using the
[Feature Launcher](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-feature-launcher).

It is **not meant to be a production-ready setup**, more as a way to facilitate experimenting and learning Sling. 

See [Releasing a new version of the Sling starter](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/SLING/Releasing+a+new+version+of+the+Sling+Starter) for how to create a release of this module.

## How to run the Sling Starter module in Standalone mode


  NOTE: "mvn clean" deletes the "launcher" work directory in the project base
        directory. It is advisable to use a work directory outside of the
        project directory.

1) Build the Sling Starter using 

	mvn clean install
	
in the current directory.

2) Start Sling backed by an Oak SegmentStore with

    java -jar target/dependency/org.apache.sling.feature.launcher.jar -f target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-oak_tar.json
	
3) Browse Sling in:

        http://localhost:8080

For MongoDB support replace the launch command with

    java -jar target/dependency/org.apache.sling.feature.launcher.jar -f target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-oak_mongo.json

This expects a MongoDB server to be running, search for `mongodb://` in the feature files for the expected URL
(currently `mongodb://localhost:27017`).

## How to run the Sling Starter Docker image

The following tags are supported

* `11, latest` - Apache Sling Starter 11 - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter-docker/blob/11/Dockerfile), [Release notes](https://sling.apache.org/news/sling-11-released.html) )
* `10` - Apache Sling Starter 10 - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter-docker/blob/10/Dockerfile), [Release notes](https://sling.apache.org/news/sling-10-released.html) )
* `9`- Apache Sling Launchpad 9 - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter-docker/blob/9/Dockerfile), [Release notes](https://sling.apache.org/news/sling-launchpad-9-released.html) )
* `snapshot` - developments builds based on the latest version on the master branch - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/blob/master/Dockerfile) )

The Docker image only needs the port 8080 to be exposed

```
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 apache/sling:snapshot
```

By default the image launches the `oak_tar` aggregate, which uses local persistence. The aggregate to launch can be selected by passing an additional argument to the image, e.g.:

```
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 apache/sling:snapshot oak_mongo
```

Currently only the `oak_tar` and `oak_mongo` aggregates are supported.

For persisting the runtime data is is recommended to mount `/opt/sling/launcher` as a volume, for instance:

```
$ docker volume create sling-launcher
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -v sling-launcher:/opt/sling/launcher apache/sling:snapshot
```

The [docker/](docker/) directory contains sample files related to container-based development.

## Building the Docker image

This module can optionally build a Docker image. This is achieved by running a build with the `-Ddocker.skip=false` argument. By default, the image is built as `apache/sling:snapshot`. The tag can be overrriden using the `docker.label` Maven property.

```
$ mvn clean package -Ddocker.skip=false -Ddocker.label=local
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 apache/sling:local
```

## Extending the Sling Starter

If you wish the extend the Sling Starter but would like to keep various application-level features out, you can
start with the `nosample_base` aggregate, which contains:

- all the base features
- Oak base features, without the NodeStore setup
- No applications ( Composum, Slingshot, etc )

For instance, launching an empty Sling Starter with segment persistence can be achieved by running

    java -jar target/dependency/org.apache.sling.feature.launcher.jar -f target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-nosample_base.json,target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-oak_persistence_sns.json
    
Your own feature files can be added to the feature list.


## Helper scripts

The `scripts` directory contains helper scripts that will aid with local development by simplifying the use of tools external to the Sling Starter.

Commit message:

SLING-11170 update to DS 1.5 compatible implementation of Felix SCR (#55)
add hint in readme how to defer stopping the instance

README.md, after:

[![Apache Sling](https://sling.apache.org/res/logos/sling.png)](https://sling.apache.org)

&#32;[![Build Status](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/badge/icon)](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/)&#32;[![Test Status](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/tests.svg?jobUrl=https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/)](https://ci-builds.apache.org/job/Sling/job/modules/job/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/job/master/test/?width=800&height=600)&#32;[![Sonarcloud Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=apache_sling-org-apache-sling-starter&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=apache_sling-org-apache-sling-starter)&#32;[![JavaDoc](https://www.javadoc.io/badge/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.starter.svg)](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.starter)&#32;[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.starter/badge.svg)](https://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22org.apache.sling%22%20a%3A%22org.apache.sling.starter%22) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

# Apache Sling Starter

This module is part of the [Apache Sling](https://sling.apache.org) project.

The starter project produces feature artifacts that can be launched using the
[Feature Launcher](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-feature-launcher).

It is **not meant to be a production-ready setup**, more as a way to facilitate experimenting and learning Sling. 

See [Releasing a new version of the Sling starter](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/SLING/Releasing+a+new+version+of+the+Sling+Starter) for how to create a release of this module.

## How to run the Sling Starter module in Standalone mode


  NOTE: "mvn clean" deletes the "launcher" work directory in the project base
        directory. It is advisable to use a work directory outside of the
        project directory.

1) Build the Sling Starter using 

	mvn clean install
	
in the current directory.

Hint: You can defer stopping the instance after running the ITs with argument `-Dfeature-launcher.waitForInput=true` to do some manual checks.

2) Start Sling backed by an Oak SegmentStore with

    java -jar target/dependency/org.apache.sling.feature.launcher.jar -f target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-oak_tar.json
	
3) Browse Sling in:

        http://localhost:8080

For MongoDB support replace the launch command with

    java -jar target/dependency/org.apache.sling.feature.launcher.jar -f target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-oak_mongo.json

This expects a MongoDB server to be running, search for `mongodb://` in the feature files for the expected URL
(currently `mongodb://localhost:27017`).

## How to run the Sling Starter Docker image

The following tags are supported

* `11, latest` - Apache Sling Starter 11 - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter-docker/blob/11/Dockerfile), [Release notes](https://sling.apache.org/news/sling-11-released.html) )
* `10` - Apache Sling Starter 10 - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter-docker/blob/10/Dockerfile), [Release notes](https://sling.apache.org/news/sling-10-released.html) )
* `9`- Apache Sling Launchpad 9 - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter-docker/blob/9/Dockerfile), [Release notes](https://sling.apache.org/news/sling-launchpad-9-released.html) )
* `snapshot` - developments builds based on the latest version on the master branch - ( [Dockerfile](https://github.com/apache/sling-org-apache-sling-starter/blob/master/Dockerfile) )

The Docker image only needs the port 8080 to be exposed

```
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 apache/sling:snapshot
```

By default the image launches the `oak_tar` aggregate, which uses local persistence. The aggregate to launch can be selected by passing an additional argument to the image, e.g.:

```
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 apache/sling:snapshot oak_mongo
```

Currently only the `oak_tar` and `oak_mongo` aggregates are supported.

For persisting the runtime data is is recommended to mount `/opt/sling/launcher` as a volume, for instance:

```
$ docker volume create sling-launcher
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -v sling-launcher:/opt/sling/launcher apache/sling:snapshot
```

The [docker/](docker/) directory contains sample files related to container-based development.

## Building the Docker image

This module can optionally build a Docker image. This is achieved by running a build with the `-Ddocker.skip=false` argument. By default, the image is built as `apache/sling:snapshot`. The tag can be overrriden using the `docker.label` Maven property.

```
$ mvn clean package -Ddocker.skip=false -Ddocker.label=local
$ docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 apache/sling:local
```

## Extending the Sling Starter

If you wish the extend the Sling Starter but would like to keep various application-level features out, you can
start with the `nosample_base` aggregate, which contains:

- all the base features
- Oak base features, without the NodeStore setup
- No applications ( Composum, Slingshot, etc )

For instance, launching an empty Sling Starter with segment persistence can be achieved by running

    java -jar target/dependency/org.apache.sling.feature.launcher.jar -f target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-nosample_base.json,target/slingfeature-tmp/feature-oak_persistence_sns.json
    
Your own feature files can be added to the feature list.


## Helper scripts

The `scripts` directory contains helper scripts that will aid with local development by simplifying the use of tools external to the Sling Starter.
